Hey. Thanks for swinging by.
Ye-ah, no sweat. We were doing
a prep at 26th and Cal.
What's going on?
There's been a rash of ODs.
They're coming in in waves.
Third one today just coded.
- Heroin?
- Yeah, but definitely laced.
Probably fentanyl.
I haven't seen anything
like this since...
ever.
I'll put a call in to Narcotics...
see what they know.
Can we get the CFD paperwork?
I want to see where
these paramedic calls
are originating from.
They're coming in from
all over the city.
I've got another one.
Narcan's wearing off.
Give him another 2 of Narcan...
slow IV push.
All right, I'll pull together
a detailed list when I can.
- I got to go.
- Thanks, man,
Thanks.
Oh, man.
We got to roll.
What do we got?
A call came in.
Suspicious package by the lake.
Family was setting up for
their kid's birthday party.
Roger and Ashley Basinski over here.
The mother found a backpack
soaked in what she believed to be blood.
Recovered right over here.
She open it?
Yeah, found a surprise inside.
- You want to talk to 'em?
- Yeah.
All right.
All right, guys...
Fentanyl?
300 K worth.
My guy in Narcotics says
recently they've been
pulling heroin off the streets
that's been cut with it.
Makes it, like, 1,000 times more potent.
It's killing people all over Chicago.
Hey, Sarge.
I heard Mouse came looking
to get a felony dropped
so he could re-enlist.
And if he did?
I think he's carrying
around a lot of guilt
that we made it home safe
and friends of ours didn't.
Grab a shoulder. Grab a shoulder.
Are you all right?
Get her out of here; get
her to her parents.
Be careful.
- Oh!
- Oh, man.
God.
Oh, my God.
- sync and corrections by Caio -
- www.addic7ed.com -
Back in '06, we had freezer trucks
parked out back filled with stiffs
from all the heat-related deaths.
We actually ran out of toe tags.
All of these are from fentanyl?
Last two weeks have been insane.
Dealers get the cut wrong,
your heart stops instantly.
Okay.
Cause of death on your DOA
is blunt head trauma.
Abrasions on both shoulders
match the width of the backpack
recovered at the scene.
You find any drugs in his system?
Toxicology report came back clean.
But you may be able to run with this.
His skin was bloated from
the time in the water...
ballparking at seven hours.
Clear as day now that he's dried out.
So how's the online dating going?
Oh, my God, shush.
Okay, sorry.
Can I talk to you guys?
Oh, God, is that her, uh...
Yeah, it's her bad news voice.
Julie, there's no easy way to say this.
You're being transferred
back to your foot beat
at 26th and Cal.
What the hell? She just got here.
It's Fogel.
Because she didn't consent
to being his piece of ass?
I am well aware of the particulars...
- I mean, you got to be...
- Burgess!
I brought you in at
management discretion.
He went over me.
He went over the union.
He is a commander,
and there is nothing more I can do.
I'm sorry.
This is your last shift at 21.
We'll fight it.
Hey, anything come back on the tattoo?
Yeah, I went through the intake
records at the morgue...
checked every death certificate
from April 22, 2010...
by hand.
They're not online.
So that's a no then?
No.
It's Grace Clarendon.
leukemia.
She was 14.
Damn.
LKA for her mother is at
the bottom of the page,
right hand side.
You're welcome.
Theresa Clarendon?
- Yeah.
- I'm Detective Dawson.
This is Detective Olinsky.
No, I asked Mr. Harrison
to give me another week
to put the rent together.
Please don't throw me out.
Uh, we're, uh... we're
here about your son.
Why? What happened to him?
Ma'am, I'm gonna show you a photo.
That's his tattoo.
God, is he okay?
Ma'am, I'm sorry.
When we placed Grace to rest,
I just assumed
Tyler would be the one
to lay me next to her.
Ms. Clarendon,
is there any chance that
your son might have been
mixed up in something illegal?
Like what?
When Tyler was found, he
was wearing a backpack
filled with narcotics.
Tyler had a problem with that
when he got back from overseas.
He was in the military.
He was trying to get his life together.
He got a job.
Doing what?
Landscaping, he said.
I don't know the details.
I saw him mostly on Facebook.
He have any recent posts?
This friend... you know him?
Tyler Clarendon.
This woman outlived both her kids.
His new best friend was Tony Chin.
20.
Junior at Central Chicago U.
No criminal record, but
the last few weeks,
he suddenly appears all over
Tyler's social media profile.
Mouse, you dump his phone records?
Yeah, there's dozens of calls
between Tyler and Tony Chin,
all less than two minutes in duration
and at all sorts of crazy hours.
Have Atwater and Ruzek
take a run at this guy.
You know, uh, Tyler...
he was 2nd Battalion, 7th Marine.
- When?
- '08.
He was spitting distance
from us in Kandahar.
All right, well, they saw some action.
Yeah, they did.
What part of "do not disturb"
you having trouble with?
The Chicago PD part.
Hey.
Look, I-I... I didn't know.
It's okay. I understand.
We all look alike.
African-Americans?
Wha...
Cops...
the same cops who heard that
apparently you're the guy to talk to.
About what?
About your buddy Tyler right here.
I met him at a party I DJ'd.
I didn't know him that well.
Really?
Then why you been calling
him day and night?
He did a little work
for me at the parties,
providing refreshments.
Refreshments, huh?
Okay, it's... it's not like that.
- I'm talking beer...
- Tony, please.
Don't act as stupid as that
haircut makes you look.
You guys were running dope together.
Right? Tony...
I... I don't know what
you're talking about.
I'm a... I'm a Phi Beta
Kappa honor student,
and I've got a chem
midterm on Friday, so...
Let me guess what happened.
Tyler... he wanted a little
bit bigger cut, right?
So you take a baseball bat...
crack him in the head with it.
Damn.
Hey, Officer, do you mind
if I grab my wallet?
I don't want you, you know, shooting me
as I reach for it, so...
Yeah, any more questions,
contact my lawyer.
Wow, you have one on retainer.
Yeah, this conversation's over.
For now.
It's never gonna end with that guy.
There's got to be
something that we can do.
Private security, I guess?
Ride out the year.
Bid back into 21st legit,
and then no one can touch you.
Hey, are you okay?
Did somebody hurt you?
My mom... she hurt my dad real bad.
Call it in. What's your name, buddy?
- Chase.
- 2113, this is an emergency.
Roll another squad to
32nd and Princeton.
You got a last name?
Chase, you're gonna be fine.
- We're gonna help your dad.
- Okay.
Hey, look at me. We're gonna help you.
All right?
That's my house, the one with the flag.
Chase, can you stay with these officers?
- Yeah?
- Yeah, go in the back.
Hey.
Chicago PD!
Clear.
- Clear.
- Sir?
Chicago PD. Don't move.
Got you, Tay. Coming up behind.
- Clear.
- Sir, I need to see your hands.
Sir, do not move your
hands from that table!
Chicago PD!
Help me.
Please.
I don't want to die.
Help.
Is he gonna be all right?
We'll know more when we get to Med.
Where's your mom?
Hey. Chase?
Can you tell me where your mom is?
I don't know.
It's okay.
Hey, it's okay.
Don't worry.
And that's when your wife got violent?
Yeah, uh, my ex.
We had words. She went nuts.
Stabbed me with a steak knife.
But when she saw the blood,
she panicked and ran out.
She, um...
she ever do anything like this before?
No.
Just a lot of bitching.
But I'll take the knife every time.
And Chase was where for all of this?
Napping.
I couldn't find my phone.
So I yelled for him.
He came in.
He was crying.
He hugged me.
That's how come he got blood on him.
Then he ran to get help.
There's no other immediate
family in Chicago?
- Outside of his mother?
- Yeah.
Uh-uh.
We both moved from St.
John, Indiana, years ago.
All right, well, we put an
investigative alert on her.
Chase...
Chase'll have to go with DCFS.
Can you take him?
Please?
Just till I get out of here.
You know what, Jay?
It's not your call.
I promised that I would look out for you
when we came home.
That is what I'm doing.
Why are you so insistent
that it has to be right now?
Take a couple months off.
Just clear your head, and then if you...
No, if I wait, the post
will be gone in six months.
All right?
If I don't reenlist now, it's done.
Greg, it's a war.
They're not really turning people away.
Do you have any idea what it's like?
I sit behind that desk and watch
you go out every single day...
go out and see action.
Do you have any idea how
that actually makes me feel?
Then take the police exam!
No, I was born to be a soldier!
A soldier, man!
If it comes down to it, I will die one.
Are you crazy?
Sorry to interrupt.
Uh, your guy from Narcotics, Martinez...
he called back.
They got a line on the
dealer who changed his cut
from lactose to fentanyl.
Thanks.
Black ball cap, black
hoodie, white sneakers.
Heavyset guy?
Yeah, didn't dig the nickname "Chunk,"
so he took a tire iron
to some guy's dome.
Goes by "Red" now.
Quite the entrepreneur.
Been working double shifts...
managing a spot during the day
and handling the cut at night.
Meaning he knows the
source of the supply.
Yup.
Hey, man, I'm looking for two.
Who sent you?
Red, come on, man.
I was here like...
like, three weeks ago.
Come on, man. Cash money.
You know I'm good for it.
All right.
We got a positive.
I repeat, we got a positive.
Black hat, black hoodie, white shoes.
Chicago PD. Let me see your hands.
Hey, Red.
- You know who we are.
- Man, I ain't got nothing.
Oops.
Mustache on Jackson...
I drew it.
My bills.
Man, I don't know nothing about nothing.
Bro, if it was me,
I'd be a hell of a lot more worried
about these drug-induced homicides.
I don't even know what that is.
Nine bodies so far.
I didn't serve any of those hypes.
It's your dope in 'em.
Might as well be your bullet.
So what you looking for exactly?
You've been inside two years
and been picked up how many times?
Hey.
What do you think we're looking for?
All right, but here's the deal.
I'll give you my supplier,
but I'm not a rat.
'Cause this dude, he
ain't one of my boys.
So this don't count as ratting.
Makes perfect sense to me.
Name's Scoot. White dude.
Scoot?
Yeah.
He's really...
white.
What's he look like?
Just a real white dude.
Wear them lumberjack shirts.
One time, I went to him.
I met him at this... this mini-mart.
- Where?
- Right off the lake.
Slid down LSD up north.
Some rich-ass neighborhood.
Lawrence or something.
All right, when was this?
Two Mondays ago.
Check it out.
This is from two weeks ago?
Yeah.
The black dude... never seen him before.
That other guy, he comes
in here every other week
looking for White Owl
cigars and rolling papers.
He loves those blunts.
And you wouldn't believe
how much fuel he burns
in that boat of his, either.
Where can we find him?
What'd he do, huh?
- Parking tickets.
- Okay.
I got you. I don't know where he lives.
Uh, but he's got a boat at the marina.
Uh, just a few days ago I had to
take some propane tanks to him.
They were having some kind of rager.
Yeah, I could show you
where the slip is at.
"Whiplash."
- Well, there she is.
- With a gash in the hull.
What if this wasn't a murder at all,
just a high-speed accident?
Either way, we're after a fentanyl ring.
Waypoints for Blind River, Ontario,
Mackinaw City, Michigan, and Chicago.
We ran a quantitative and
qualitative analysis
on the sample from the lake.
It's not coming back as fentanyl.
What are you talking about?
Chemically, fentanyl's a pharmaceutical
designed to treat cancer patients...
potent enough that a molecule
on the head of a pin is deadly,
but if even a molecule's altered,
then technically, it's not
a controlled substance.
That's what I'm talking about.
Do you know how many OD's
we have off this stuff
down at Med?
I do.
But they OD'd on fentanyl
that had been fully processed.
The batch you found in the backpack
hadn't been activated yet,
which I'm assuming they were gonna do
when they got to Chicago.
So you're saying that our batch
is off by a molecule?
That is correct.
Yeah, I got him.
They're coming in right now. Thanks.
Sarge?
- Sarge, you want to see this.
- Yeah?
High-speed impact would be consistent
with blunt force trauma to our vic.
So I think the owner of the boat
is the one bringing the
fentanyl in from Canada.
Mm.
Just got the test results back from ISP.
Technically, it's not fentanyl.
What?
Apparently the manufacturer's
altered molecules
so that this stuff wouldn't be
on the U.S. government's
controlled substance list.
Until it's activated,
it's basically baby powder.
So we don't have a case?
Oh, excelent.
Perfect, thanks.
And this, um, is Sergeant Platt,
who I've been telling you about.
Hey.
You a Hawks fan?
That's great, because I
really need a wingman
to keep an eye on this game
while I'm chained to this desk.
Will you do that for me?
- Sure.
- Thanks.
Don't forget your shirt.
- Sit right over there, buddy.
- You got it?
Kid's mom takes a
nursing course at Lakeside.
Ends in an hour.
Why would someone stab their husband
and then go to class?
'Cause some people are crazy, Burgess.
Leigh Crewes.
Yeah?
Were you at your ex-husband's
place earlier this morning?
Yeah, so?
Did you have words with him?
He insulted
me and screamed at me,
if that's what you mean.
Did it make you mad enough to stab him?
What?
I didn't stab him.
Gerry's crazy.
He's been making threats for years...
said he'd do anything to keep Chase.
Okay, did you ever file
a restraining order?
Do you have any paperwork
to back this up?
No.
Ma'am, now is the time
to get ahead of this.
You got to tell us the truth,
or you're never gonna
see your kid again.
- No!
- Whoa.
He's not well!
He's been going through
a serious depression.
I understand that, ma'am.
Can you put your hands on the roof?
Uh-uh, no way. I didn't do anything.
Ma'am, hands on the roof.
I understand that.
- Put your hands on the roof.
- I'm not kidding.
We'll sort it out later.
I can't believe this! It's okay.
- Detective Olinsky.
- Ms. Clarendon.
Hey. Hi.
Have you...
figured out who killed Tyler?
Not yet.
But I promise to contact
you as soon as we do.
At first, I couldn't bring myself
to go through Tyler's things,
but when I did, I found this.
He was applying to the
Chicago Fire Department.
So are you sure he was
involved in something illegal?
Because I'm going to have
to deal with his loss,
and knowing that maybe he
turned his life around
would give me some comfort.
You can tell me.
I'm sorry, but it's looking
like he was involved.
- Hey, Will.
- Hey, Kev.
- What's up?
- How you doing on the case?
Covering every angle.
You got to get this stuff
off the streets, Jay.
I just declared a 16-year-old girl.
Sophomore at Rutherford High.
Her mother found out I had a
brother who's a detective.
She asked me to give you that.
I don't mean to push, man.
I just... I need you to know.
It's not just career junkies.
Kids are dying out there.
Yeah. Okay.
All right.
- Got it?
- Yeah.
Sarge, boat's owned by John
and Christie Fitzgerald.
They're a well-connected Chicago couple
who made a good chunk of
change in construction.
I just checked with Customs.
As of three days ago,
they've been on vacation in Italy.
Any border crossing to Canada?
None.
But their son, Scott,
attends Central Chicago U.
Goes by "Scoot."
He and Tony Chin were
in Chem I together.
All right, Mouse, get me a
nexus on the phone records
for him, Tony Chin, and Tyler.
And have patrol pick this Scoot up
and bring him in here.
I want to talk to that guy.
You not wanting to be here isn't
gonna work either, Mouse.
- I talked to him.
- I'm not talking to you.
You want to stay, then do your job.
You don't want to stay, that's
a separate conversation.
I've done my job.
I've done my job since
the day I got here.
Busted my ass for you.
I never... never once asked for OT.
And all I'm asking for is a favor...
a favor so that maybe I can live my life
the way that I'd like to.
Don't go out like this, Mouse.
You've come too far.
You know, maybe Voight's right.
Maybe I just need to clear out of here.
What are you gonna do
with your felony record?
You gonna go back to boosting stereos?
That guy on the board...
that could've been me
when I came back here...
high, doing something
stupid and dangerous.
Greg, that is not you.
That's not you now.
I am telling you, Jay,
if I lose my job because
of a bender or whatever...
I'm looking at Tyler, and
that could've been me.
It still could be me.
- No.
- Hey, hey, guys.
We're done here.
Okay? We are on a case.
Mouse, go back to your desk.
Yeah.
Come on.
- Hey.
- I'm, I'm...
I'm gonna get through to him.
And he's gonna be all right.
Listen.
What you two went through
and what you carry is real.
And you know that if you ever
need my help carrying it,
you just have to ask me.
Why are you not listening to him?
Because going back is not
the right move for him.
For you.
Him going back is not
the right move for you.
But if it was... if you were
the one that wanted to go...
would you let anybody stand in your way?
Come on.
How's it going, Scoot?
Mind if I call you Scoot?
I have no idea why I'm here.
Well...
We found a boat in your
mom and dad's name.
It's got a pretty big-sized
dent in its hull.
Okay.
Look, I was running bud.
From Canada.
Super easy. No harm done.
Just a little recreational marijuana.
And then I meet this guy Tony Chin
in my class.
And...
yeah, this is him.
Tony thinks he's a gangster.
But the real guy is his uncle, Mr. Ng.
First name Walter?
Yeah. Yeah, him.
So Tony tells him about our thing.
Next thing we know, Ng is sweating us
to bring in fentanyl on the same route.
And I told Tony, "Hey, man,
"I'll drive the boat;
"I'll get it to the dealers.
But the other stuff, you
got to figure out."
So, like, him recruiting the...
losers to wear the backpacks?
That's all him.
Losers like Tyler.
These the losers you're talking about?
That night...
what happened?
There was a heavy fog.
I didn't want to go, I swear.
Mm-hmm.
But Ng put a gun on the table.
I had no choice.
You don't say no to him.
I don't, anyway.
What did you hit?
I guess Tyler was seasick,
leaning over the edge, and...
I didn't see the buoy until
the boat clipped it.
This is murder
we're looking at.
Maybe...
maybe we can leave some
of it out of the report,
but, I mean, you're gonna
have to help us take down Ng.
What do you mean, help
you bring him down?
We set it up. You go in.
- We got eyes on...
- Like, undercover?
Correct.
Ng is a killer.
How long you think you're
gonna last at Stateville?
Scoot?
You know, what you're going through
is really hard.
But it is all gonna work out, okay?
You know, my mom...
boy, she could get really angry, too.
But I always knew it wasn't my fault.
It's important for you
to realize that, Chase.
My dad's the one who gets real angry.
I don't like
owing people favors.
You and me both.
But is it possible to hack
into someone's phone remotely?
Uh, technically, yes. Legally, no.
Why?
Because this kid Burgess
and Tay picked up
is about to lose his mom
on an agg assault charge.
I need to make sure it went down
the way her ex said it did.
This is the dad's phone
number, name, and DOB.
Okay, well, I will see what I can see.
Thanks, Mouse.
Yeah, you got it.
Hey.
Hey, what's up?
Um, listen, man.
Do whatever it is you need to do.
All right?
I'm behind you...
100%.
Walter Ng.
Hardcore crime boss in Chinatown.
Alleged to be in everything
from prostitution
to high-stakes gambling.
He's been identified as the
source of the fentanyl
coming into Chicago,
so he is responsible by
coercion for Tyler's death.
His operation's slick.
The modified fentanyl
originates in China
and gets shipped to Ng's connect
in Blind River, Ontario.
And our boy Scoot...
he zips up from the marina.
Tony Chin brings a couple of
college kids to mule it down.
Marine unit says they put
oxygen tanks and a GPS
in weighted backpacks
along with the dope.
If the Coast Guard rolls up,
dump the bag, come
back later that night,
press a button, and boom...
floats to the surface.
Then from Canada, they head here,
south of Mackinaw City, Michigan.
They stop to refuel at Rowley's Bay.
Then down into Chicago.
Where Scoot gives the drugs to Red
and several other scumbag dealers,
and they sell it to kids on the street.
We can't touch Ng
because he's modifying the
chemistry of the fentanyl.
Yeah, but as soon as he
processes it here in Chicago,
we can hit him with calculated
criminal drug conspiracy
and accessory to murder.
Any word on why he allows
himself to be called Scoot?
None yet.
Yo, Sarge, you got to see this.
Scoot made contact.
Okay, I'm listening.
They're building a temporary lab.
Tony and me are supposed to meet there
to process the fentanyl.
Good, when and where?
Tonight. Location TBD.
Ng's gonna be there, too.
He's usually there when
you process the fentanyl?
No, but...
what?
Now you don't want him?
Fine, I'll text him...
tell him not to show up.
Ng wants it done, so he'll
be there for pickup.
All lined up, Sarge.
Yeah.
That is a UC phone.
It looks and acts like a regular phone,
so if anybody checks it out,
they won't be able to tell
that it transmits audio to us.
And what's that?
This is a pinhole camera.
Whichever way this is looking
is the way we're gonna be able to see.
Okay.
- This guy's gonna kill me.
- No.
He is.
Scoot, I know you're out
of your element here,
but we are very much in ours, okay?
So trust us.
Relax.
Okay.
- Come on.
- All right.
We're through the south entrance.
We're in.
Switch over.
We're in position.
Standing by.
Mr. Ng sent me.
Okay, there's Tony Chin.
Hurry up. You're late.
Everything ready to go?
Mm, along with some trigger-pullers.
Does anybody see Ng?
Negative.
No, nothing.
There's the buyer.
I don't see Ng, Sarge.
Do you?
Stand by.
Something's not right.
All right, but the converted fentanyl's
about to walk out the door.
He's leaving. Got to go now.
Move in.
Go. Go!
Chicago PD! Nobody move!
Chicago PD! Get back!
- Don't move! Don't move!
- Stop!
Chicago PD! Everybody's hands, now!
- Now, now!
- Back it up!
- Get down on the ground!
- Walk this way.
- Get on the ground!
- Keep your hands spread out!
Police! Freeze! Turn around!
Turn around. Turn around.
Don't look at me. Look at the ground!
Don't move!
Drop it!
On your knees.
Get down. Hands behind your back.
Man, why are you cuffing me?
I did what you guys asked.
I knew it, you piece of sh...
- Shut your mouth.
- You're on your own, dude.
Tony Chin.
Stand him up.
Where's your uncle?
He's supposed to be here.
I don't know what you're talking about.
Yeah.
Well, kid, guess what.
You got caught holding the bag.
Murder, calculated
criminal drug conspiracy.
Haul him in.
You can't park there.
Sergeant Voight to see Walter Ng.
Open that door.
This way.
Policeman coming your way.
What's up, Walter?
Sergeant.
Let me get this straight.
You served up your own nephew?
Man, isn't that against some kind of...
tradition or something?
Tony?
Is that who you're talking about?
Mm.
Tony's had a drug and alcohol problem
for years now.
Gets to a point where you just, uh,
stop answering the phone.
I got to admit...
we really thought we had you this time.
Whatever that means.
It means you keep running
your illegal card games,
counterfeit watches, massage parlors.
You take your chances; we'll take ours.
But if you pump any more
fentanyl into my city,
they're gonna be pulling
you out of the river.
You understand?
Sure.
That was a yes or no question.
Yes.
I understand.
I tunneled in on that dude's cell phone.
There's something you
should take a look at.
Oh, Lord.
Will you send that to Burgess and Tay?
Sure.
And, um, I heard you were looking
to get a felony disappeared.
I mean, how did you even...
Jay told me.
17 Google searches on a
"Journal of Medicine" study
about non-fatal stab wounds?
What?
Were you monitoring my phone?
Is that even legal?
You said your ex stabbed
you in the neck,
but your wound's not
consistent with that.
She's 5'6". You're what, 6'3"?
- I was sitting down.
- Oh.
You do a lot of arguing
sitting down, Jerry?
Look, you lost it.
You did a crazy thing.
But if you ever want
to see your boy again,
now is the time to tell the truth.
Nine years of marriage.
I gave up my job so I could stay home
and take care of Chase.
And she walks out for a classmate.
I gave her everything.
And now she won't even talk to me.
So your mom never hurt your dad.
You know that, right?
- Yeah.
- Okay.
'Cause I have somebody here to see you.
- Hi.
- Mom!
Oh, sweetheart.
We're going home, sweetheart.
Thank you.
Yeah.
So then who hurt my dad?
We'll talk about this. We got to go.
- Hi.
- Yes?
So, uh, Tyler can be
buried next to Grace.
Okay.
Look.
It's really easy for a woman
to catch a rep on this job,
whether or not you deserve it.
It looks like I'm never
gonna get the chance to...
Go after what you want, Kim.
Don't wait.
Come on in.
Sergeant.
Yeah?
I just wanted to...
I just wanted to reiterate
my desire and my commitment
to one day be detailed
up to Intelligence.
I know that it was offered once before,
but I felt that I still had
something to learn in patrol.
And I'm glad that I stayed.
Yeah.
But if the opportunity ever
presented itself again,
I... I just want you to know
that it would be the best
decision that you ever made
to have me be a part of your unit.
That's all.
Be ready.
I will.
I am.
- sync and corrections by Caio -
- www.addic7ed.com -